Steven Paul Jobs was born on February 24, 1955 in San Francisco, California. 
His unwed biological parents, Joanne Schieble and Abdulfattah Jandali, put him up for adoption. 
Steve was adopted by Paul and Clara Jobs, a lower-middle-class couple, who moved to the suburban city of Mountain View a couple of years later.
The Santa Clara county, south of the Bay Area, became known as Silicon Valley in the early 1950s after the sprouting of a myriad of semi-conductor companies. 
As a result, young Steve Jobs grew up in a neighborhood of engineers working on electronics and other gizmos in their garages on weekends. 
This shaped his interest in the field as he grew up. 
At age 13, he met one the most important persons in his life: 18-year-old Stephen Wozniak, an electronics wiz kid, and, like Steve, an incorrigible prankster. 
Steve Jobs was born in San Francisco, 1955, to two university students Joanne Schieble and Syrian-born John Jandali. 
They were both unmarried at the time, and Steven was given up for adoption. 
Steven was adopted by Paul and Clara Jobs, whom he always considered to be his real parents. 
Stevenís father, Paul, encouraged him to experiment with electronics in their garage. 
This led to a lifelong interest in electronics and design. 
Jobs attended a local school in California and later enrolled at Reed College, Portland, Oregon. 
His education was characterised by excellent test results and potential. 
But, he struggled with formal education and his teachers reported he was a handful to teach. 
At Reed College, he attended a calligraphy course which fascinated him. 
He later said this course was instrumental in Appleís multiple typefaces and proportionally spaced fonts. 
Woz, whose interest in electronics had grown stronger, was regularly attending meetings of a group of early computer hobbyists called the Homebrew Computer Club. 
They were the real pioneers of personal computing, a collection of radio jammers, computer professionals and enlightened amateurs who gathered to show off their latest prowess in building their own personal computer or writing software. 
The club started to gain popularity after the Altair 8800 personal computer kit came out in 1975. 
The knowledge that Woz gathered at the Homebrew meetings, as well as his exceptional talent, allowed him to build his own computer board ó simply because he wanted a personal computer for himself. 
Steve Jobs took interest, and he quickly understood that his friend's brilliant invention could be sold to software hobbyists, who wanted to write software without the hassle of assembling a computer kit. 
Jobs convinced Wozniak to start a company for that purpose: Apple Computer was born on April 1, 1976. 
The following months were spent assembling boards of Apple I computers in the Jobses' garage, and selling them to independent computer dealers in the area. 
However, Wozniak had started work on a much better computer, the Apple II ó an expandable, much more powerful system that supported color graphics. 
Jobs and Wozniak knew deep down it could be hugely successful, and therefore Jobs started to seek venture capital. 
He eventually convinced former Intel executive turned business angel Mike Markkula to invest $250,000 in Apple, in January 1977. 
Markkula was a big believer in the personal computing revolution, and he said to the young founders that, thanks to the Apple II, their company could be one of the Fortune 500 in less than two years. 
However, because of his hot temper and his relative inexperience in technology or management, Steve Jobs was thrown out of the Lisa project. 
He felt absolutely crushed by this decision. 
As a revenge, he took over a small project called Macintosh, a personal computer that was supposed to be a cheap appliance, 'as easy to use as a toaster'. 
In 1981, Steve Jobs became head of the Macintosh project, and decided to make it a smaller and cheaper version of the Lisa, complete with a GUI of folders, icons and drop-down menus, and a mouse. 
The three years it took to develop Macintosh were some of the most productive and intense for Steve Jobs. 
He formed a small group of dedicated, young, brilliant engineers who stood fully behind his vision of a computer 'for the rest of us'. 
They saw themselves as 'pirates' against the rest of Apple, 'the Navy'. 
The team antagonized both the Apple II group and the Lisa group, because the Mac was competitive of both. 
Yet in 1983, after it became clear the Lisa was turning into another major flop for Apple, all of the company's hope started to rest on the Macintosh. 
Steve was supported in his mission by John Sculley, Apple's new CEO whom he hired in 1983 to help him run the company and groom him into a future chief executive. 
To understand how Steve Jobs got out of his nadir, let's go back eight years earlier, in late 1985. 
At the time, George Lucas, who was in the middle of an expensive divorce, was selling the computer graphics division of his Lucasfilm empire. 
Steve Jobs had millions in the bank, after having sold all his Apple stock, and was interested. 
In early 1986, he bought the small group of computer scientists, and incorporated it as Pixar. 
The founders of Pixar, Ed Catmull and Alvy Ray Smith, had gotten together in the late 1970s with a common vision of making films using computer animation only. 
But they also knew no computer was powerful enough at the time, and they would have to hold out for a couple decades before their dream could materialize. 
For the first five years of Pixar, Steve Jobs set a goal for the company to sell high-end computer graphics workstations for institutions, such as hospitals or even the army. 
The animations group led by John Lasseter was very small at the time, and only survived because it provided good publicity for the power of the Pixar rendering software. 
Steve Jobs understood this when the studio won an Academy Award for its short movie 'Tin Toy' in 1989. 
However, just like NeXT's, sales of Pixar hardware were microscopic, and the company went software-only in 1990. 
Pixar then became a software company, developing the RenderMan 3D rendering software. 
Its animation business was kept alive because it was the only one that brought some cash in, with various 3D TV commercials for consumer brands. 
However a decisive contract changed everything: in 1991, Disney signed with Pixar for making a full-feature computer-animated movie. 
The script had to be fully approved by both parties, and the very hands-on head of Disney animation Jeffrey Katzenberg halted the production several times out of creative disagreements with John Lasseter and his team. 
But in 1995, the movie was finally starting to take form, and Steve Jobs became increasingly enthused by it. 
iPod made Steve Jobs realize that Apple could become the greatest consumer electronics company on the planet. 
Around 2003, he started a secret project to develop a tablet. 
In 2004-2005, he realized that the technology that this group had developed, including a revolutionary touch-screen technology, could be used in a phone rather than a tablet. 
After two more years of development, including a harsh internal competition to prove that it was possible to make Mac OS X run on the phone, iPhone was introduced at Macworld on January 9, 2007. 
This keynote is often considered the best and most memorable of all of Steve Jobs's career. 
iPhone was not only a breakthrough digital convergence device (an iPod, a phone, and an Internet communicator all in one), it was also a force of disruption of the traditional phone business. 
Just like for the iTunes Store, Steve Jobs had negotiated landmark deals with wireless carrier AT&T before he introduced iPhone ó without ever showing it to them! In exchange for exclusivity, the carrier would pay Apple a share of all their iPhone subscription revenues. 
And of course, AT&T could not put any software on the iPhone, and no logo either. 
This was an inversion of the traditional master-slave relationship that carriers entertained with phone manufacturers. 
In the long run, it really put the phone industry upside down. 
Unlike iPod, all of Apple understood that iPhone would be a successful and rules-changing device, starting with their own company. 
That's why Steve Jobs announced that its name would change from Apple Computer Inc to Apple Inc. 
Macs still mattered, but accounted for a minority of Apple's revenues already, and this decline would not stop any time soon. 
Apple had become the most prominent digital device company. 
The original iPhone was successful already: despite its $399 price tag, Apple sold 6 million of them during its existence. 
But sales really started to skyrocket in 2008, after Apple introduced the cheaper iPhone 3G (at a subsidized $199 price) and the App Store. 
Just like the Windows-compatible iPod, Steve Jobs was originally opposed to letting third-party software on the iPhone. 
But the demand was so high that he eventually relented, and introduced the iPhone SDK and the App Store in March 2008. 
Unfortunately, while he had never been so successful professionally, Steve Jobs had to start fighting cancer with renewed intensity. 
In late 2003, he had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer of a rare kind, that could potentially be cured by surgery. 
However, against everyone's advice, he refused to have the surgery for nine long months. 
Instead, true to the ideals of his youth, he tried alternative diets and treatments, including acupuncture and seeing a psychic. 
Only in July 2004 did he agree to have the surgery. 
He looked healthy for the next five years, and spoke publicly of being 'cured' of cancer at his famous Stanford speech in 2005. 
The resurgence of Steve's cancer was a painful reminder that it was time to 'put his affairs in order' before his passing ó and he did. 
He made sure that Apple was ready to operate without him: in late 2008, he hired the dean of the Yale School of Management to create 'Apple University', a sort of internal business track to groom future Apple executives by exposing them to the Apple ways of doing business, through actual case studies in the history of the company. 
He also consolidated his executive team and agreed with the board that his natural successor would be his second in command, COO Tim Cook. 
Finally, at his last public appearance in June 2011, he unveiled his plans for the future Apple campus in Cupertino, a huge spaceship-sized building in the shape of a perfect circle. 
All of this was in place when, because of his increasingly deteriorating health, he resigned as Apple CEO on August 24, 2011. 
Jobs also prepared his personal legacy. 
In 2009, he finally started giving interviews to journalist Walter Isaacson to prepare for his first and only authorized biography, giving him his perspective on his life and career. 
He also spent his last days designing a boat for his family on which he hoped to travel the world. 
Unfortunately, death took him too soon, and he died peacefully at home on October 5, 2011, surrounded by his family ó the day following the introduction of the iPhone 4S, an Apple event that he watched from his deathbed. 
On leaving Apple, Jobs founded NeXT computers. 
This was never particularly successful, failing to gain mass sales. 
However, in the 1990s, NeXT software was used as a framework in WebObjects used in Apple Store and iTunes store. 
In 1996, Apple bought NeXT for $429 million. 
Much more successful was Jobís foray into Pixar ñ a computer graphic film production company. 
Disney contracted Pixar to create films such as Toy Story, A Bugís Life and Finding Nemo. 
These animation movies were highly successful and profitable ñ giving Jobs respect and success. 
In 1996, the purchase of NeXT brought Jobs back to Apple. 
He was given the post of chief executive. 
At the time, Apple had fallen way behind rivals such as Microsoft, and Apple was struggling to even make a profit. 
Jobs launched Apple in a new direction. 
With a certain degree of ruthlessness, some projects were summarily ended. 
Instead, Jobs promoted the development of a new wave of products which focused on accessibility, appealing design and innovate features. 
The iPod was a revolutionary product in that it built on existing portable music devices and set the standard for portable digital music. 
In 2008, iTunes became the second biggest music retailer in the US, with over six billion song downloads and over 200 million iPods sold. 
In 2007, Apple successfully entered the mobile phone market, with the iPhone. 
This used features of the iPod to offer a multi-functional and touchscreen device to become one of the best-selling electronic products. 
In 2010, he introduced the iPad ñ a revolutionary new style of tablet computers. 
The design philosophy of Steve Jobs was to start with a fresh slate and imagine a new product that people would want to use. 
This contrasted with the alternative approach of trying to adapt current models to consumer feedback and focus groups. 
Jobís explains his philosophy of innovative design. 
Jobs earned only $1million as CEO of Apple. 
But, share options from Apple and Disney gave him an estimated fortune of $8 billion. 
In 1991, he married Laurene Powell, together they had three children and lived in Palo Alto, California. 
In 2003, he was diagnosed with Pancreatic Cancer. 
Over the next few years, Jobs struggled with health issues and was often forced to delegate the running of Apple to Tim Cook. 
In 2009, he underwent a liver transplant, but two years later serious health problems returned. 
He worked intermittently at Apple until August 2011, where he finally retired to concentrate on his deteriorating health. 
He died as a result of complications from his pancreatic cancer, suffering cardiac arrest on 5 October 2011 in Palo Alto, California. 
In addition to his earlier interest in Eastern religions, Jobs expressed sentiments of agnosticism. 
In 1986, Jobs bought The Graphics Group from Lucasfilm's computer graphics division for 10 million dollars. 
The company was later renamed Pixar. 
At first, Jobs intended for Pixar to become a high-end graphic hardware developer, but that goal was not well achieved. 
Pixar moved on to do what it now does best, which is make animated films. 
Jobs negotiated for Pixar and Disney to collaborate on a number of animated projects that included the film Toy Story. 
In 2006, Disney bought Pixar from Jobs. 
Quotes
Woz[niak] was the first person I met who knew more about electronics than I did. 
A lot of companies have chosen to downsize, and maybe that was the right thing for them. 
We chose a different path. 
Our belief was that if we kept putting great products in front of customers, they would continue to open their wallets. 
Be a yardstick of quality. 
Some people aren't used to an environment where excellence is expected. 
Innovation distinguishes between a leader and a follower. 
You can't just ask customers what they want and then try to give that to them. 
By the time you get it built, they'll want something new. 
Being the richest man in the cemetery doesnít matter to me. 
Going to bed at night saying weíve done something wonderful, thatís what matters to me. 
Iím convinced that about half of what separates successful entrepreneurs from the non-successful ones is pure perseverance. 
My favourite things in life donít cost any money. 
Itís really clear that the most precious resource we all have is time. 
My model for business is The Beatles. 
They were four guys who kept each otherís kind of negative tendencies in check. 
They balanced each other, and the total was greater than the sum of the parts. 
Thatís how I see business: Great things in business are never done by one person, theyíre done by a team of people. 
Sometimes when you innovate, you make mistakes. 
It is best to admit them quickly, and get on with improving your other innovations. 
Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. 
And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. 
If you havenít found it yet, keep looking. 
Donít settle. 
As with all matters of the heart, youíll know when you find it. 
Innovation distinguishes between a leader and a follower. 
Bottom line is, I didnít return to Apple to make a fortune. 
Iíve been very lucky in my life and already have one. 
When I was 25, my net worth was $100 million or so. 
I decided then that I wasnít going to let it ruin my life. 
Thereís no way you could ever spend it all, and I donít view wealth as something that validates my intelligence. 
Steve Jobs was posthumously honored as a Disney Legend in 2013. 
He received Grammy Trustees Award in 2012. 
He was named as the most powerful person in business by Fortune magazine in 2007. 
Steve received Jefferson Award for Public Service in the year 1987. 
Jobs along with Steve Wozniak received National Medal of Technology in 1985. 
Steven Paul Steve Jobs was an American businessman, designer and inventor. 
He is best known as the co-founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Apple Inc. 
Through Apple, he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer revolution and for his influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields. 
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios; he became a member of the board of directors of The Walt Disney Company in 2006, when Disney acquired Pixar. 
In the late 1970s, Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak engineered one of the first commercially successful lines of personal computers, the Apple II series. 
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC's mouse-driven graphical user interface, which led to the creation of the Apple Lisa and, one year later, the Macintosh. 
During this period he also led efforts that would begin the desktop publishing revolution, notably through the introduction of the LaserWriter and the associated PageMaker software. 
After losing a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985, Jobs left Apple and founded NeXT, a computer platform development company specializing in the higher-education and business markets. 
In 1986, he acquired the computer graphics division of Lucasfilm, which was spun off as Pixar. 
He was credited in Toy Story (1995) as an executive producer. 
He remained CEO and majority shareholder at 50. 
1 percent until its acquisition by The Walt Disney Company in 2006, making Jobs Disney's largest individual shareholder at seven percent and a member of Disney's Board of Directors. 
After difficulties developing a new Mac operating system, Apple purchased NeXT in 1996 in order to use NeXTSTEP as the basis for what became Mac OS X. 
As part of the deal Jobs was named Apple advisor. 
As Apple floundered, Jobs took control of the company and was named interim CEO in 1997, or as he jokingly referred to it, iCEO. 
Under his leadership, Apple was saved from near bankruptcy, and became profitable by 1998. 
Over the next decade, Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac, iTunes, iPod, iPhone, and iPad, and on the services side, the company's Apple Retail Stores, iTunes Store and the App Store. 
The success of these products and services, providing several years of stable financial returns, propelled Apple to become the world's most valuable publicly traded company in 2011. 
The reinvigoration of the company is regarded by many commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history. 
In 2003, Jobs was diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor. 
Though it was initially treated, he reported a hormone imbalance, underwent a liver transplant in 2009, and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined. 
On medical leave for most of 2011, Jobs resigned as Apple CEO in August that year and was elected Chairman of the Board. 
He died of respiratory arrest related to his metastatic tumor on October 5, 2011. 
Jobs has received a number of honors and public recognition for his influence in the technology and music industries. 
He has widely been referred to as legendary, a futurist or simply visionary, and has been described as the Father of the Digital Revolution, a master of innovation, and a design perfectionist. 
Steven Paul Jobs was born in San Francisco on February 24, 1955 to two university students, Joanne Carole Schieble and Syrian-born Abdulfattah John Jandali, who were both unmarried at the timeJandali, who was teaching in Wisconsin when Steve was born in 1955, said he had no choice but to put the baby up for adoption because his girlfriend's family objected to their relationship. 
The baby was adopted at birth by Paul Reinhold Jobs (1922-1993) and Clara Jobs (1924‚Ä1986), an Armenian-American whose maiden name was Hagopian. 
According to Steve Jobs's commencement address at Stanford, Schieble wanted Jobs to be adopted only by a college-graduate couple. 
Schieble learned that Clara Jobs didn't graduate from college and Paul Jobs only attended high school, but signed final adoption papers after they promised her that the child would definitely be encouraged and supported to attend college. 
Later, when asked about his adoptive parents, Jobs replied emphatically that Paul and Clara Jobs were my parents. 
He stated in his authorized biography that they were my parents 1,000%. 
Unknown to him, his biological parents would subsequently marry (December 1955), have a second child Mona Simpson in 1957, and divorce in 1962. 
The Jobs family moved from San Francisco to Mountain View, California when Steve was five years old. 
The parents later adopted a daughter, Patti. 
Paul was a machinist for a company that made lasers, and taught his son rudimentary electronics and how to work with his hands. 
The father showed Steve how to work on electronics in the family garage, demonstrating to his son how to take apart and rebuild electronics such as radios and televisions. 
As a result, Steve became interested in and developed a hobby of technical tinkering. 
Clara was an accountant who taught him to read before he went to school. 
Clara Jobs had been a payroll clerk for Varian Associates, one of the first high-tech firms in what became known as Silicon Valley. 
Jobs's youth was riddled with frustrations over formal schooling. 
At Monta Loma Elementary school in Mountain View, he was a prankster whose fourth-grade teacher needed to bribe him to study. 
Jobs tested so well, however, that administrators wanted to skip him ahead to high school‚Äa proposal his parents declined. 
Jobs then attended Cupertino Junior High and Homestead High School in Cupertino, California. 
At Homestead, Jobs became friends with Bill Fernandez, a neighbor who shared the same interests in electronics. 
Fernandez introduced Jobs to another, older computer whiz kid, Stephen Wozniak (also known as Woz). 
In 1969 Woz started building a little computer board with Fernandez that they named ‚ÄúThe Cream Soda Computer‚Äù, which they showed to Jobs; he seemed really interested. 
Jobs frequented after-school lectures at the Hewlett-Packard Company in Palo Alto, California, and was later hired there, working with Wozniak as a summer employee. 
Following high school graduation in 1972, Jobs enrolled at Reed College in Portland, Oregon. 
Reed was an expensive college which Paul and Clara could ill afford. 
They were spending much of their life savings on their son‚Äôs higher education. 
Jobs dropped out of college after six months and spent the next 18 months dropping in on creative classes, including a course on calligraphy. 
He continued auditing classes at Reed while sleeping on the floor in friends' dorm rooms, returning Coke bottles for food money, and getting weekly free meals at the local Hare Krishna temple. 
Jobs later said, If I had never dropped in on that single calligraphy course in college, the Mac would have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts. 
Home of Paul and Clara Jobs, on Crist Drive in Los Altos, California. 
Steve Jobs formed Apple Computer in its garage with Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne in 1976. 
Wayne stayed only a short time leaving Jobs and Wozniak as the primary co-founders of the company. 
Jobs and Steve Wozniak met in 1971, when their mutual friend, Bill Fernandez, introduced 21-year-old Wozniak to 16-year-old Jobs. 
In 1976, Wozniak invented the Apple I computer. 
Jobs, Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne founded Apple computer in the garage of Jobs's parents in order to sell it. 
They received funding from a then-semi-retired Intel product-marketing manager and engineer Mike Markkula. 
In 1978, Apple recruited Mike Scott from National Semiconductor to serve as CEO for what turned out to be several turbulent years. 
In 1983, Jobs lured John Sculley away from Pepsi-Cola to serve as Apple's CEO, asking, Do you want to sell sugar water for the rest of your life, or do you want to come with me and change the world?
In the early 1980s, Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC's mouse-driven graphical user interface, which led to the creation of the Apple Lisa. 
One year later, Apple employee Jef Raskin invented the Macintosh. 
The following year, Apple aired a Super Bowl television commercial titled 1984. 
At Apple's annual shareholders meeting on January 24, 1984, an emotional Jobs introduced the Macintosh to a wildly enthusiastic audience; Andy Hertzfeld described the scene as pandemonium. 
Apple logo in 1977, created by Rob Janoff with the rainbow color theme used until 1998. 
While Jobs was a persuasive and charismatic director for Apple, some of his employees from that time described him as an erratic and temperamental manager. 
Disappointing sales caused a deterioration in Jobs's working relationship with Sculley and it eventually became a power struggle between Jobs and Sculley. 
Jobs kept meetings running past midnight, sent out lengthy faxes, then called new meetings at 7:00 am. 
Sculley learned that Jobs‚Äbelieving Sculley to be bad for Apple and the wrong person to lead the company‚Ähad been attempting to organize a boardroom coup, and on May 24, 1985, called a board meeting to resolve the matter. 
Apple's board of directors sided with Sculley and removed Jobs from his managerial duties as head of the Macintosh division. 
Jobs resigned from Apple five months later and founded NeXT Inc the same year. 
In a speech Jobs gave at Stanford University in 2005, he said being fired from Apple was the best thing that could have happened to him; The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything. 
It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life. 
And he added, I'm pretty sure none of this would have happened if I hadn't been fired from Apple. 
It was awful-tasting medicine, but I guess the patient needed it. 
A NeXTstation with the original keyboard, mouse and the NeXT MegaPixel monitor
After leaving Apple, Jobs founded NeXT Computer in 1985, with $7 million. 
A year later, Jobs was running out of money, and with no product on the horizon, he appealed for venture capital. 
Eventually, he attracted the attention of billionaire Ross Perot who invested heavily in the company. 
NeXT workstations were first released in 1990, priced at $9,999. 
Like the Apple Lisa, the NeXT workstation was technologically advanced, but was largely dismissed as cost-prohibitive by the educational sector for which it was designed. 
The NeXT workstation was known for its technical strengths, chief among them its object-oriented software development system. 
Jobs marketed NeXT products to the financial, scientific, and academic community, highlighting its innovative, experimental new technologies, such as the Mach kernel, the digital signal processor chip, and the built-in Ethernet port. 
Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web on a NeXT computer at CERN. 
The revised, second-generation NeXTcube was released in 1990, also. 
Jobs touted it as the first interpersonal computer that would replace the personal computer. 
With its innovative NeXTMail multimedia email system, NeXTcube could share voice, image, graphics, and video in email for the first time. 
Interpersonal computing is going to revolutionize human communications and groupwork, Jobs told reporters. 
Jobs ran NeXT with an obsession for aesthetic perfection, as evidenced by the development of and attention to NeXTcube's magnesium case. 
This put considerable strain on NeXT's hardware division, and in 1993, after having sold only 50,000 machines, NeXT transitioned fully to software development with the release of NeXTSTEP/Intel.  The company reported its first profit of $1.3 million in 1994. 
In 1996, NeXT Software, Inc released WebObjects, a framework for Web application development. 
After NeXT was acquired by Apple Inc. 
in 1997, WebObjects was used to build and run the Apple Store, MobileMe services, and the iTunes Store. 
In 1986, Jobs bought The Graphics Group (later renamed Pixar) from Lucasfilm's computer graphics division for the price of $10 million, $5 million of which was given to the company as capital. 
The first film produced by the partnership, Toy Story, with Jobs credited as executive producer, brought fame and critical acclaim to the studio when it was released in 1995. 
Over the next 15 years, under Pixar's creative chief John Lasseter, the company produced box-office hits A Bug's Life (1998); Toy Story 2 (1999); Monsters, Inc. 
(2001); Finding Nemo (2003); The Incredibles (2004); Cars (2006); Ratatouille (2007); WALL-E (2008); Up (2009); and Toy Story 3 (2010). 
Finding Nemo, The Incredibles, Ratatouille, WALL-E, Up and Toy Story 3 each received the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, an award introduced in 2001. 
Interview excerpt from 1995. 
In the years 2003 and 2004, as Pixar's contract with Disney was running out, Jobs and Disney chief executive Michael Eisner tried but failed to negotiate a new partnership, and in early 2004, Jobs announced that Pixar would seek a new partner to distribute its films after its contract with Disney expired. 
In October 2005, Bob Iger replaced Eisner at Disney, and Iger quickly worked to patch up relations with Jobs and Pixar. 
On January 24, 2006, Jobs and Iger announced that Disney had agreed to purchase Pixar in an all-stock transaction worth $7.4 billion. 
When the deal closed, Jobs became The Walt Disney Company's largest single shareholder with approximately seven percent of the company's stock. 
Jobs's holdings in Disney far exceeded those of Eisner, who holds 1.7 percent, and of Disney family member Roy E. 
Disney, who until his 2009 death held about one percent of the company's stock and whose criticisms of Eisner ‚Ä especially that he soured Disney's relationship with Pixar ‚Ä accelerated Eisner's ousting. 
Jobs joined the company's board of directors upon completion of the merger and also helped oversee Disney and Pixar's combined animation businesses from a seat on a special six-person steering committee. 
Upon Jobs's death his shares in Disney were transferred to the Steven P. 
Jobs Trust led by Laurene Jobs. 
In 1996, Apple announced that it would buy NeXT for $427 million. 
The deal was finalized in late 1996, bringing Jobs back to the company he co-founded. 
Jobs became de facto chief after then-CEO Gil Amelio was ousted in July 1997. 
He was formally named interim chief executive in September. 
In March 1998, to concentrate Apple's efforts on returning to profitability, Jobs terminated a number of projects, such as Newton, Cyberdog, and OpenDoc. 
In the coming months, many employees developed a fear of encountering Jobs while riding in the elevator, afraid that they might not have a job when the doors opened. 
The reality was that Jobs's summary executions were rare, but a handful of victims was enough to terrorize a whole company. 
Jobs also changed the licensing program for Macintosh clones, making it too costly for the manufacturers to continue making machines. 
With the purchase of NeXT, much of the company's technology found its way into Apple products, most notably NeXTSTEP, which evolved into Mac OS X. 
Under Jobs's guidance, the company increased sales significantly with the introduction of the iMac and other new products; since then, appealing designs and powerful branding have worked well for Apple. 
At the 2000 Macworld Expo, Jobs officially dropped the interim modifier from his title at Apple and became permanent CEO. 
Jobs quipped at the time that he would be using the title iCEO. 
The company subsequently branched out, introducing and improving upon other digital appliances. 
With the introduction of the iPod portable music player, iTunes digital music software, and the iTunes Store, the company made forays into consumer electronics and music distribution. 
On June 29, 2007, Apple entered the cellular phone business with the introduction of the iPhone, a multi-touch display cell phone, which also included the features of an iPod and, with its own mobile browser, revolutionized the mobile browsing scene. 
While stimulating innovation, Jobs also reminded his employees that real artists ship. 
Jobs was both admired and criticized for his consummate skill at persuasion and salesmanship, which has been dubbed the reality distortion field and was particularly evident during his keynote speeches (colloquially known as Stevenotes) at Macworld Expos and at Apple Worldwide Developers Conferences. 
In 2005, Jobs responded to criticism of Apple's poor recycling programs for e-waste in the US by lashing out at environmental and other advocates at Apple's Annual Meeting in Cupertino in April. 
A few weeks later, Apple announced it would take back iPods for free at its retail stores. 
The Computer TakeBack Campaign responded by flying a banner from a plane over the Stanford University graduation at which Jobs was the commencement speaker. 
The banner read Steve, don't be a mini-player‚Ärecycle all e-waste. 
In 2006, he further expanded Apple's recycling programs to any US customer who buys a new Mac. 
This program includes shipping and environmentally friendly disposal of their old systems. 
In August 2011, Jobs resigned as CEO of Apple, but remained with the company as chairman of the company's board. 
Hours after the announcement, Apple Inc. 
AAPL) shares dropped five percent in after-hours trading. 
This relatively small drop, when considering the importance of Jobs to Apple, was associated with the fact that his health had been in the news for several years, and he had been on medical leave since January 2011. 
It was believed, according to Forbes, that the impact would be felt in a negative way beyond Apple, including at The Walt Disney Company where Jobs served as director. 
In after-hours trading on the day of the announcement, Walt Disney Co. 
(DIS) shares dropped 1.5 percent. 
Jobs earned only $1 a year as CEO of Apple, Jobs held 5. 
426 million Apple shares worth $2. 
1 billion, as well as 138 million shares in Disney (which he received in exchange for Disney's acquisition of Pixar) worth $4.4 billion. 
Jobs quipped that the $1 per annum he was paid by Apple was based on attending one meeting for 50 cents while the other 50 cents was based on his performance. 
Forbes estimated his net wealth at $8.3 billion in 2010, making him the 42nd wealthiest American. 
Stock options backdating issue
Two men in their fifties shown full length sitting in red leather chairs smiling at each other
Steve Jobs and Bill Gates at the fifth D: All Things Digital conference (D5) in 2007
In 2001, Jobs was granted stock options in the amount of 7. 
5 million shares of Apple with an exercise price of $18.30. 
It was alleged that the options had been backdated, and that the exercise price should have been $21.10. 
It was further alleged that Jobs had thereby incurred taxable income of $20,000,000 that he did not report, and that Apple overstated its earnings by that same amount. 
As a result, Jobs potentially faced a number of criminal charges and civil penalties. 
The case was the subject of active criminal and civil government investigations, though an independent internal Apple investigation completed on December 29, 2006, found that Jobs was unaware of these issues and that the options granted to him were returned without being exercised in 2003. 
On July 1, 2008, a $7-billion class action suit was filed against several members of the Apple Board of Directors for revenue lost due to the alleged securities fraud. 
Jobs was a demanding perfectionist who always aspired to position his businesses and their products at the forefront of the information technology industry by foreseeing and setting trends, at least in innovation and style. 
He summed up that self-concept at the end of his keynote speech at the Macworld Conference and Expo in January 2007, by quoting ice hockey player Wayne Gretzky
There's an old Wayne Gretzky quote that I love 'I skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been. 
' And we've always tried to do that at Apple. 
Since the very very beginning. 
And we always will. 
Steve Jobs announcing the transition to Intel processors in 2005. 
Much was made of Jobs's aggressive and demanding personality. 
Fortune wrote that he was considered one of Silicon Valley's leading egomaniacs. 
Commentaries on his temperamental style can be found in Michael Moritz's The Little Kingdom, The Second Coming of Steve Jobs, by Alan Deutschman; and iCon: Steve Jobs, by Jeffrey S Young & William L. Simon. 
In 1993, Jobs made Fortune's list of America's Toughest Bosses in regard to his leadership of NeXT. 
NeXT Cofounder Dan'l Lewin was quoted in Fortune as saying of that period, The highs were unbelievable.
But the lows were unimaginable, to which Jobs's office replied that his personality had changed since then. 
In 2005, Jobs banned all books published by John Wiley & Sons from Apple Stores in response to their publishing an unauthorized biography, iCon: Steve Jobs. 
In its 2010 annual earnings report, Wiley said it had closed a deal to make its titles available for the iPad. 
Jef Raskin, a former colleague, once said that Jobs would have made an excellent king of France, alluding to Jobs's compelling and larger-than-life persona. 
Floyd Norman said that at Pixar, Jobs was a mature, mellow individual and never interfered with the creative process of the filmmakers. 
Jobs had a public war of words with Dell Computer CEO Michael Dell, starting in 1987 when Jobs first criticized Dell for making un-innovative beige boxes. 
Jobs was also a board member at Gap Inc from 1999 to 2002. 
Apple's Bud Tribble coined the term reality distortion field in 1981, to describe Jobs's charisma and its effects on the developers working on the Macintosh project. 
Tribble claimed that the term came from Star Trek. 
Since then the term has also been used to refer to perceptions of Jobs's keynote speeches. 
The RDF was said by Andy Hertzfeld to be Steve Jobs's ability to convince himself and others to believe almost anything, using a mix of charm, charisma, bravado, hyperbole, marketing, appeasement, and persistence. 
Although the subject of criticism, Jobs's so-called reality distortion field was also recognized as creating a sense that the impossible was possible. 
Once the term became widely known, it was often used in the technology press to describe Jobs's sway over the public, particularly regarding new product announcements. 
His design sense was greatly influenced by the Buddhism which he experienced in India while on a seven-month spiritual journey. 
His sense of intuition was also influenced by the spiritual people with whom he studied. 
As of October 9, 2011, Jobs is listed as either primary inventor or co-inventor in 342 United States patents or patent applications related to a range of technologies from actual computer and portable devices to user interfaces (including touch-based), speakers, keyboards, power adapters, staircases, clasps, sleeves, lanyards and packages. 
Most of these are design patents (specific product designs) as opposed to utility patents (inventions). 
He has 43 issued US patents on inventions. 
The patent on the Mac OS X Dock user interface with magnification feature was issued the day before he died. 
Jobs began work on the first iPhone in 2005 and the first iPhone was released on June 29, 2007. 
The iPhone created such a sensation that a survey indicated six out of ten Americans were aware of its release. 
Time magazine declared the iPhone Invention of the Year for 2007. 
The Apple iPhone is a small device with multimedia capabilities and functions as a quad-band touch screen smartphone. 
A year later, the iPhone 3G was released in July 2008 with the key feature was support for GPS, 3G data and quad-band UMTS/HSDPA. 
In June 2009, the iPhone 3GS, added voice control, a better camera, and a faster processor was introduced by Phil Schiller. 
iPhone 4 was thinner than previous models, had a five megapixel camera which can record videos in 720p HD, and added a secondary front facing camera for video calls. 
A major feature of the iPhone 4S, introduced in October 2011, was Siri, which is a virtual assistant that is capable of voice recognition. 
Arik Hesseldahl of BusinessWeek magazine stated that Jobs isn't widely known for his association with philanthropic causes, compared to Bill Gates's efforts. 
In contrast to Gates, Jobs did not sign the Giving Pledge of Warren Buffett which challenged the worlds richest billionaires to give at least half their wealth to charity. 
In an interview with Playboy in 1985, Jobs said in respect to money that ‚Äúthe challenges are to figure out how to live with it and to reinvest it back into the world which means either giving it away or using it to express your concerns or values. 
Jobs also added that when he has some time we would start a public foundation but for now he does charitable acts privately. 
After resuming control of Apple in 1997, Jobs eliminated all corporate philanthropy programs initially. 
Jobss friends told The New York Times that he felt that expanding Apple would have done more good than giving money to charity. 
Later, under Jobs, Apple signed to participate in Product Red program, producing red versions of devices to give profits from sales to charity. 
Apple has gone on to become the largest contributor to the charity since its initial involvement with it. 
The chief of the Product Red project, singer Bono cited Jobs saying there was nothing better than the chance to save lives, when he initially approached Apple with the invitation to participate in the program. 
Through its sales, Apple has been the largest contributor to the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, according to Bono. 
Jobs's birth parents met at the University of Wisconsin. 
Abdulfattah John Jandali, from Syria, taught there. 
Joanne Carole Schieble was his student; they were the same age because Jandali had gotten his PhD really young. 
Schieble had a career as a speech language pathologist. 
Jandali taught political science at the University of Nevada in the 1960s, and then made his career in the food and beverage industry, and since 2006, has been a vice president at a casino in Reno, Nevada. 
In December 1955, ten months after giving up their baby boy, Schieble and Jandali married. 
In 1957 they had a daughter, Mona. 
They divorced in 1962, and Jandali lost touch with his daughter. 
Her mother remarried and had Mona take the surname of her stepfather, so she became known as Mona Simpson. 
In the 1980s, Jobs found his birth mother, Joanne Schieble Simpson, who told him he had a biological sister, Mona Simpson. 
They met for the first time in 1985 and became close friends. 
The siblings kept their relationship secret until 1986, when Mona introduced him at a party for her first book. 
After deciding to search for their father, Simpson found Jandali managing a coffee shop. 
Without knowing who his son had become, Jandali told Mona that he had previously managed a popular restaurant in the Silicon Valley where Even Steve Jobs used to eat there. 
Yeah, he was a great tipper. 
In a taped interview with his biographer Walter Isaacson, aired on 60 Minutes, Jobs said: When I was looking for my biological mother, obviously, you know, I was looking for my biological father at the same time, and I learned a little bit about him and I didn't like what I learned. 
I asked her to not tell him that we ever met not tell him anything about me. 
Jobs was in occasional touch with his mother Joanne Simpson, who lives in a nursing home in Los Angeles. 
When speaking about his biological parents, Jobs stated: They were my sperm and egg bank. 
That's not harsh, it's just the way it was, a sperm bank thing, nothing more. 
Jandali stated in an interview with the The Sun in August 2011, that his efforts to contact Jobs were unsuccessful. 
Jandali mailed in his medical history after Jobs's pancreatic disorder was made public that year
In her eulogy to Jobs at his memorial service, Mona Simpson stated:
I grew up as an only child, with a single mother. 
Because we were poor and because I knew my father had emigrated from Syria, I imagined he looked like Omar Sharif. 
I hoped he would be rich and kind and would come into our lives (and our not yet furnished apartment) and help us. 
Later, after I'd met my father, I tried to believe he'd changed his number and left no forwarding address because he was an idealistic revolutionary, plotting a new world for the Arab people. 
Even as a feminist, my whole life I'd been waiting for a man to love, who could love me. 
For decades, I'd thought that man would be my father. 
When I was 25, I met that man and he was my brother. 
Jobs's first child, Lisa Brennan-Jobs, was born in 1978, the daughter of his longtime partner Chris Ann Brennan, a Bay Area painter. 
For two years, she raised their daughter on welfare while Jobs denied paternity by claiming he was sterile; he later acknowledged Lisa as his daughter. 
Jobs later married Laurene Powell on March 18, 1991, in a ceremony at the Ahwahnee Hotel in Yosemite National Park. 
Presiding over the wedding was Kobun Chino Otogawa, a Zen Buddhist monk. 
Their son, Reed, was born September 1991, followed by daughters Erin in August 1995, and Eve in 1998. 
The family lives in Palo Alto, California. 
Shoulder-high portrait of two middle aged men, the one on left wearing a blue dress shirt and suitcoat, the one on right wearing a black turtleneck shirt and with his glasses pushed back onto his head and holding a phone facing them with an Apple logo visible on its back
Jobs demonstrating the iPhone 4 to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev on June 23, 2010
In the unauthorized biography, The Second Coming of Steve Jobs, author Alan Deutschman reports that Jobs once dated Joan Baez. 
Deutschman quotes Elizabeth Holmes, a friend of Jobs from his time at Reed College, as saying she believed that Steve became the lover of Joan Baez in large measure because Baez had been the lover of Bob Dylan (Dylan was the Apple icon's favorite musician). 
In another unauthorized biography, iCon: Steve Jobs by Jeffrey S. 
Young & William L. 
Simon, the authors suggest that Jobs might have married Baez, but her age at the time (41) meant it was unlikely the couple could have children. 
My model for business is The Beatles: They were four guys that kept each other's negative tendencies in check; they balanced each other. 
And the total was greater than the sum of the parts. 
Great things in business are never done by one person, they are done by a team of people. 
In 1982, Jobs bought an apartment in The San Remo, an apartment building in New York City with a politically progressive reputation, where Demi Moore, Steven Spielberg, Steve Martin, and Princess Yasmin Aga Khan, daughter of Rita Hayworth, also had apartments. 
With the help of I.M.Pei, Jobs spent years renovating his apartment in the top two floors of the building's north tower, only to sell it almost two decades later to U2 singer Bono. 
Jobs never moved in. 
In 1984, Jobs purchased the Jackling House, a 17,000-square-foot (1,600 m2), 14-bedroom Spanish Colonial mansion designed by George Washington Smith in Woodside, California. 
Although it reportedly remained in an almost unfurnished state, Jobs lived in the mansion for almost ten years. 
According to reports, he kept a 1966 BMW R60/2 motorcycle in the living room, and let Bill Clinton use it in 1998. 
From the early 1990s, Jobs lived in a house in the Old Palo Alto neighborhood of Palo Alto. 
President Clinton dined with Jobs and 14 Silicon Valley CEOs there on August 7, 1996, at a meal catered by Greens Restaurant. 
Clinton returned the favor and Jobs, who was a Democratic donor, slept in the Lincoln bedroom of the White House. 
Jobs allowed Jackling House to fall into a state of disrepair, planning to demolish the house and build a smaller home on the property; but he met with complaints from local preservationists over his plans. 
In June 2004, the Woodside Town Council gave Jobs approval to demolish the mansion, on the condition that he advertise the property for a year to see if someone would move it to another location and restore it. 
A number of people expressed interest, including several with experience in restoring old property, but no agreements to that effect were reached. 
Later that same year, a local preservationist group began seeking legal action to prevent demolition. 
In January 2007, Jobs was denied the right to demolish the property, by a court decision. 
The court decision was overturned on appeal in March 2010, and the mansion was demolished beginning in February 2011. 
Jobs usually wore a black long-sleeved mock turtleneck made by Issey Miyake (that was sometimes reported to be made by St. 
Croix), Levi's 501 blue jeans, and New Balance 991 sneakers. 
Jobs told Walter Isaacson he came to like the idea of having a uniform for himself, both because of its daily convenience (the rationale he claimed) and its ability to convey a signature style. 
He was a pescetarian. 
In October 2003, Jobs was diagnosed with cancer, and in mid-2004, he announced to his employees that he had a cancerous tumor in his pancreas. 
The prognosis for pancreatic cancer is usually very poor; Jobs stated that he had a rare, far less aggressive type known as islet cell neuroendocrine tumor. 
Despite his diagnosis, Jobs resisted his doctors' recommendations for mainstream medical intervention for nine months, instead consuming a special alternative medicine diet in an attempt to thwart the disease. 
According to Harvard researcher Dr. 
Ramzi Amir, his choice of alternative treatment led to an unnecessarily early death. 
According to Jobs's biographer, Walter Isaacson, for nine months he refused to undergo surgery for his pancreatic cancer ‚Ä a decision he later regretted as his health declined. 
Instead, he tried a vegan diet, acupuncture, herbal remedies and other treatments he found online, and even consulted a psychic. 
He also was influenced by a doctor who ran a clinic that advised juice fasts, bowel cleansings and other unproven approaches, before finally having surgery in July 2004. 
He eventually underwent a pancreaticoduodenectomy (or Whipple procedure) in July 2004, that appeared to successfully remove the tumor. 
Jobs apparently did not receive chemotherapy or radiation therapy. 
During Jobs's absence, Tim Cook, head of worldwide sales and operations at Apple, ran the company. 
In early August 2006, Jobs delivered the keynote for Apple's annual Worldwide Developers Conference. 
His thin, almost gaunt appearance and unusually listless delivery, together with his choice to delegate significant portions of his keynote to other presenters, inspired a flurry of media and Internet speculation about his health. 
In contrast, according to an Ars Technica journal report, Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) attendees who saw Jobs in person said he looked fine. 
Following the keynote, an Apple spokesperson said that Steve's health is robust. 
Two years later, similar concerns followed Jobs's 2008 WWDC keynote address. 
Apple officials stated Jobs was victim to a common bug and was taking antibiotics, while others surmised his cachectic appearance was due to the Whipple procedure. 
During a July conference call discussing Apple earnings, participants responded to repeated questions about Jobs's health by insisting that it was a private matter. 
Others, however, voiced the opinion that shareholders had a right to know more, given Jobs's hands-on approach to running his company. 
The New York Times published an article based on an off-the-record phone conversation with Jobs, noting that While his health problems amounted to a good deal more than 'a common bug', they weren't life-threatening and he doesn't have a recurrence of cancer. 
Steve was an extraordinary visionary, our very dear friend, and our guiding light of the Pixar family. 
He saw the potential of what Pixar could be before the rest of us, and beyond what anyone ever imagined. 
Steve took a chance on us and believed in our crazy dream of making computer animated films; the one thing he always said was to 'make it great. 
' He is why Pixar turned out the way we did and his strength, integrity, and love of life has made us all better people. 
He will forever be part of Pixar's DNA. 
Our hearts go out to his wife Laurene and their children during this incredibly difficult time. 
A small private funeral was held on October 7, 2011, of which details were not revealed out of respect to Jobs's family. 
Apple announced on the same day that they had no plans for a public service, but were encouraging well-wishers to send their remembrance messages to an email address created to receive such messages. 
Sunday, October 16, 2011, was declared Steve Jobs Day by Governor Jerry Brown of California. 
On that day, an invitation-only memorial was held at Stanford University. 
Those in attendance included Apple and other tech company executives, members of the media, celebrities, close friends of Jobs, and politicians, along with Jobs's family. 
Bono, Yo Yo Ma, and Joan Baez performed at the service, which lasted longer than an hour. 
The service was highly secured, with guards at all of the university's gates, and a helicopter flying overhead from an area news station. 
A private memorial service for Apple employees was held on October 19, 2011, on the Apple Campus in Cupertino. 
Present were Cook, Bill Campbell, Norah Jones, Al Gore, and Coldplay, and Jobs's widow, Laurene, was in attendance. 
Some of Apple's retail stores closed briefly so employees could attend the memorial. 
A video of the service is available on Apple's website. 
Jobs is buried at Alta Mesa Memorial Park, the only non-denominational cemetery in Palo Alto. 
He is survived by Laurene, his wife of 20 years, their three children, and Lisa Brennan-Jobs, his daughter from a previous relationship. 
His family released a statement saying that he died peacefully. 
He looked at his sister Patty, then for a long time at his children, then at his life's partner, Laurene, and then over their shoulders past them (Mona Simpson). 
Steve Jobs's death broke news headlines on ABC, CBS, and NBC. 
Numerous newspapers around the world carried news of his death on their front pages the next day. 
Several notable people, including US President Barack Obama, British Prime Minister David Cameron, Microsoft founder Bill Gates, and The Walt Disney Company's Bob Iger commented on the death of Jobs. 
Wired News collected reactions and posted them in tribute on their homepage. 
Other statements of condolence were made by many of Jobs's friends and colleagues, such as Steve Wozniak and George Lucas. 
After Steve Job's death, Adult Swim aired a 15-second segment with the words hello in a script font fading in and then changing into goodbye. 
Major media published commemorative works. 
Time published a commemorative issue for Jobs on October 8, 2011. 
The issues cover featured a portrait of Jobs, taken by Norman Seeff, in which he is sitting in the lotus position holding the original Macintosh computer, first published in Rolling Stone in January 1984. 
The issue marked the eighth time Jobs has been featured on the cover of Time. 
The issue included a photographic essay by Diana Walker, a retrospective on Apple by Harry McCracken and Lev Grossman, and a six-page essay by Walter Isaacson. 
Isaacson's essay served as a preview of his biography, Steve Jobs. 
Apple has taken stances that, in my opinion, are outright hostile to the practice of journalism, said longtime Silicon Valley reporter Dan Gillmor. 
Under Jobs, Apple sued three small fry bloggers who reported tips about the company and its unreleased products and tried to use the courts to force them to reveal their sources. 
Under Jobs, Apple even sued a teenager, Nicholas Ciarelli, who wrote enthusiastic speculation about Apple products beginning at age 13. 
His popular blog, ThinkSecret, was a play on Apple's slogan Think Different. 
Rainey wrote that Apple wanted to kill ThinkSecret as It thought any leaks, even favorable ones, diluted the punch of its highly choreographed product launches with Jobs, in his iconic jeans and mock turtleneck outfit, as the star. 
Honors and public recognition
Steve Jobs with the first generation iPad tablet
After Apple's founding, Jobs became a symbol of his company and industry. 
When Time named the computer as the 1982 Machine of the Year, the magazine published a long profile of Jobs as the most famous maestro of the micro. 
Jobs was awarded the National Medal of Technology by President Ronald Reagan in 1985, with Steve Wozniak (among the first people to ever receive the honor), and a Jefferson Award for Public Service in the category Greatest Public Service by an Individual 35 Years or Under (also known as the Samuel S Beard Award) in 1987. 
On November 27, 2007, Jobs was named the most powerful person in business by Fortune magazine. 
On December 5, 2007, California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and First Lady Maria Shriver inducted Jobs into the California Hall of Fame, located at The California Museum for History, Women and the Arts. 
In August 2009, Jobs was selected as the most admired entrepreneur among teenagers in a survey by Junior Achievement, having previously been named Entrepreneur of the Decade 20 years earlier in 1989, by Inc magazine. 
On November 5, 2009, Jobs was named the CEO of the decade by Fortune magazine. 
In November 2010, Jobs was ranked No. 
17 on Forbes: The World's Most Powerful People. 
In December 2010, the Financial Times named Jobs its person of the year for 2010, ending its essay by stating, In his autobiography, John Sculley, the former PepsiCo executive who once ran Apple, said this of the ambitions of the man he had pushed out: 'Apple was supposed to become a wonderful consumer products company. 
This was a lunatic plan. 
High-tech could not be designed and sold as a consumer product. 
The Financial Times closed by rhetorically asking of this quote, How wrong can you be?appl Apple